Katherine Kairis, kak275@pitt.edu, 9/26/2017
# Comparing English speech of native and non-native speakers
## Summary
I plan on exploring major differences between the natural speech of native and non-native English speakers. I will probably use two different corpora: one for non-native English speakers and one for native English speakers. I will likely use the Vienna-Oxford International Corpus of English, which contains conversations among speakers from varying language backgrounds who use English as a common language. I will also have to find another corpus containing the speech of native English speakers.
## Data
I plan on using the Vienna-Oxford International Corpus of English, which can be found at this link: http://ota.ox.ac.uk/desc/2542. I also plan on finding an additional corpus of native spoken English. I think that processing the data will be the largest step of this project. The Vienna-Oxford International Corpus of English consists of XML files, which contain information about the participants and annotations of the transcripts. Also, there are several instances in which speakers use their native languages, so I will have to remove these cases from the corpus. Finally, native English speakers may have participated in some of the conversations as well, so I will either have to remove these utterances or include them in the native corpus.
## Analysis
I could look into common words used in both groups to see if there are any words frequent among native speakers that non-native speakers use rarely. I could also possibly look into how often speakers in both groups hesitate when they talk. The corpus containing conversations among non-native speakers that I plan on using also contains information about the speakers' native languages, which I could potentially use to see if L1 is associated with any features.